OSDOCS#17844: Document replacing a healthy etcd member (#112025)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/replacing-etcd-member-machine-api.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/control_plane_backup_and_restore/replacing-healthy-etcd-member.adoc
// * etcd/etcd-backup-restore/replace-healthy-etcd-member.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="replacing-healthy-etcd-member-cpms_{context}"]

> = Replacing a healthy etcd member with a control plane machine set

Reviewer: Nit: Not super familiar with file name conventions here but the filename says "machine-api" but the anchor ID is `replacing-healthy-etcd-member-cpms` and the content describes the CPMS procedure.
Maybe rename the file to `replacing-healthy-etcd-member-cpms.adoc` to match the ID and content.

Author: Ah, thank you. I think I just overlooked that while editing. 🙂

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete machine <control_plane_machine_name> -n openshift-machine-api
----
+
Replace `<control_plane_machine_name>` with the name of the control plane machine to delete.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Delete only one control plane machine at a time. Deleting multiple control plane machines at the same time can cause etcd quorum loss.
====
+
[NOTE]
====
If you delete multiple control plane machines, the control plane machine set replaces them according to the configured update strategy:

* For clusters that use the default `RollingUpdate` update strategy, the Operator replaces one machine at a time until each machine is replaced.

* For clusters that are configured to use the `OnDelete` update strategy, the Operator creates all of the required replacement machines simultaneously.

Both strategies maintain etcd health during control plane machine replacement.
====

. Monitor the replacement by running the following commands:
+
.. Verify that a new control plane machine is created:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machines \
  -l machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-role=master \
  -n openshift-machine-api -o wide
----
+

> .. Verify that the etcd cluster Operator is not progressing:

Reviewer: "Not progressing" is ambiguous here. `Progressing=True` is expected while the operator reconciles a new member.
Maybe reword to: 

```suggestion
.. Verify that the etcd cluster Operator reports Available=True and Degraded=False. Note that Progressing=True is expected during the replacement and transitions to False once the new member is fully reconciled.```
